1. The thresholds put bounds on the intensity gradient of each pixel, and with these decide if a pixel is a strong edge, a weak edge, or not an edge. The first argument is the lower threshold which sets a minimum value for the gradient intensity of a pixel. If a pixel's gradient is less than this, then it is rejected as an edge. The second argument is the upper threshold - if a pixel's gradient is greater than this then it is accepted as a strong edge, and will be included in the result as an edge. If a pixel's gradient lies in-between the two, then it is marked as a weak edge; these weak edges will only be classified as an edge if they are connected to a strong edge.
2. The `aperture` parameter defines the size of the Sobel kernel that is used to calculate the gradient intensities of the image. Increasing the size beyond 3 increases the area around each pixel that is considered when calculating the gradients, which smooths over noise but also increases the amount of detected edges.
3. Increasing the first parameter will make the accumulator more coarse with regards to distance, which has the effect of merging very close lines together. This may help if Hough is, for example, detecting many sequential lines but failing to associate them into one big line. Reducing the second parameter will make the accumulator more coarse with regards to angle, which again has the effects of merging very close lines together but instead of lines that are close by distance it is lines which are similar in angle. Increasing rho and decreasing theta is likely to merge duplicate lines.
4. Increasing the minimum line length will filter out smaller lines, which is often useful for removing falsely detected lines from noise. However, increasing it will also stop Hough from detecting shorter edges, and can also cause holes to form in curves. Increasing the maximum gap size can cause multiple smaller edges to form into more coherent large ones, which is often the desired result. However, it can also cause noise lines to combine into bigger lines, which may make removing them harder. Reducing the maximum gap size may be a good idea for sharp curves, as a larger max gap size may cause detected lines to "cut corners" and not conform very closely to the shape of the curve.
5. The horizons are very close on the second and third images, owing to the good colour contrast and clear edges that they have. The first image is not as good, which could be for multiple reasons: the horizon fades away to the left of the image, the border between earth and space is softer and less contrasting than in the second image, and the clouds are noisier and have more contrast.